i don't know where we got the idea for
like what the rules of life are right
like where did we get this idea that you
don't have to work
where do we get this idea that it has to
be like
f you know it it's supposed to be
effortless
that it's supposed to be fun like where
did we get like what what are the rules
so people asked me some time ago
dr k do you have rules for life like
jordan peterson does i was like no i
don't really but for the sake of the
memes like here's 12 rules for y'all
rule number one
your spawning your spawn point is rng
spawn points are not balanced
like where you you spawn in this world
what your stats are what your race is
what your gender is you don't get to
pick any of that crap so understand
that your spawn point is just rng it's a
crapshoot
this is also the concept of karma where
you don't get to control what what
hand of cards you're dealt in life you
just get to control how you play it
on the rule number two life isn't
supposed to be anything life is a
sandbox game
so like we come into life and we think
like oh it's supposed to be fun it's
supposed to be like engaging it's
supposed to be this i'm entitled to this
you know
i shouldn't have to deal with this
it's unfair this
life is a sandbox game it's not supposed
to be anything
life is what you make it like literally
it is the sandbox
it's like i can go outside and walk
around naked if i want to
i can eat nothing but tacos for the rest
of my life if i want to
i can work if i want to i cannot work if
i don't want to
life is what you make it and it is a
sandbox game so let go of what it's
supposed to be and look at what it
actually is
rule number three
it's your choice whether life is pvp or
co-op
you get to decide what mode you're
playing in right and this goes back to
all the crap that we've talked about
when someone else needs help you can
choose to invalidate them tell them that
they're wrong
or you can choose to help them when you
need help
you can choose to ask for it
you can attack other people or you can
be supportive of other people
life is like it's pvp or pve like you
get to pick
so try to think about which one you
really want and how you're playing the
game of life
so are you playing in co-op mode are you
playing in pvp mode when someone else
needs help like what do you do about
that
do you help them or do you like do you
spend your time trolling around on the
internet posting about you know how like
like the world is sad and everyone is
screwed up and like oh kids nowadays
blah blah blah yadda yadda
the world is going to [ __ ] do you sit
there complaining about her you like
actually get up and do something about
it
next rule
there are world bosses and these world
bosses cannot be defeated on their own
so this is something that we've really
really really got to understand so there
are problems that we face like yesterday
i was like okay so there was a school
shooting and misogyny is a problem in
our community i guess i have to fix
those tomorrow
how do i fix those problems i can't
dr k cannot fix misogyny on the internet
and he cannot stop school shootings i
can't do it i can't stop climate change
i can't do it
so what do i do about that i get up and
i [ __ ] try
same is true for all the rest of you
it's just like a world boss
you can't down a world bus
the only way that the world boss goes
down is if everyone tries to do what is
insufficient
that is the way that you tackle world
bosses in this world
everyone tries to do what they know in
their hearts to be completely
insufficient
no snowflake believes it is responsible
for the avalanche
rule number five
there is no respawning
and the servers are going to go offline
after 72 years on average
so you get one shot at this life
you don't get to respawn if you [ __ ] it
up you [ __ ] it up
the servers are going to go offline in
72 years the clock is ticking
what are you going to do with it how are
you going to play this
game because it's you don't have an
infinite amount of tries you don't get
to respawn
there aren't one-ups
there's no like you know
there's no cheat codes
it's just this is what you get
and so how are you going to use it
next thing to understand
there's no exponential xp requirement to
level up and content doesn't expire
so what this means is that
it's not like a video game where like
the amount of time it takes to level up
increases as you get higher level that's
not true
the amount of time it takes to learn
something is static
the amount of time it takes to become
proficient in language is largely static
the amount of time it learns to takes to
learn a video game is largely static
you can graduate from college in four
years you can start at 16 26 36 or 66.
four years is what it takes to graduate
from college two years is what it takes
to put your life together
one year is what it takes to start to
put your life together three months is
what it takes to like take the first
couple of steps
you can put your life together whenever
you want to the content doesn't expire
you can go to college whenever you want
to or not go to college content is out
there you can have never had a
girlfriend you can start dating tomorrow
you can be a virgin at the age of 30 and
be having a ton of sex at the age of 40.
the content's there it's just when you
choose to engage with it
furthermore just because you've wasted
some amount of time this is the way the
xp exponential xp thing comes in doesn't
mean that you can't
do it
but
that doesn't apply so just because
you've wasted time learning one skill
does not make it harder to learn other
skills that's just not true
right you can just like like literally
like you can i have a book here
svara yoga
the tantric science of brain breathing
and like this book takes the same damn
amount of time to read whether i'm 50 40
10 whatever
so the work is the same do you guys get
that like the rest of it is all bs
your emotions and your being behind in
life and like what other people have
like
men have it easier women have it easier
a book is a book you read it or you
don't read it
the content is there and it never
expires
next thing
beware people who sell walk-throughs to
sandbox games
okay
so this is the other thing remember how
we said that it isn't supposed to be
anything and that life is a sandbox game
so be careful for people who sell
walkthroughs to open world games where
you can do whatever you want to
here in my garage i have a lamborghini
right
so be careful about that
so like i'm not saying that there isn't
something to learn from those people and
i certainly fall into this category as
well right just beware because there
isn't a walk-through to the game of life
and so if we want to understand this
this goes back to like the spawn point
the rng karma
no one is going to have perfect
information about what you should do
with your life and that's because they
haven't lived your life
they may understand some approximation
of your life they may understand some
pieces of it but literally it is
impossible to put a walk-through for
your life and anyone selling you a
walk-through for your life that will
turn everything around is someone that
you should be very careful of
i'm included in that
so watch out for that because your the
walkthrough for your life can only be
determined by you you're a very unique
character who has your own stats was
born at a particular time with certain
starting equipment that no one else has
ever had
has your own experiences you spawn in a
certain world where you got exposed to
these random people who became your
party members
other people who became your bullies you
got aggroed by this thing
you know like it's unique so beware
people who offer you generic solutions
to your unique life
next thing
so i know a lot of people in this
country so i think this is rule
a lot of people in in this community
sorry want to help other people so
here's the thing that you gotta
understand if you wanna carry other
people through content you gotta be
geared up yourself
just like a video game
so if i want to carry my friends like if
i want to carry my friends and help them
gain a thousand mmr
like if they're 2k mmr and i want to
carry them to 3k mmr i need to be 6k mmr
if you've got friends who are like
running low level dungeons and you want
to carry them through it you need to be
geared out
so i know that a lot of people in this
community want to help other people but
you all need to understand if you want
to help another human being you need to
have your own [ __ ] in order first
put on your own oxygen mask before you
go and put on someone else's
this actually causes damage
we've had to actually terminate or fire
coaches for this reason
like think about not coaches one
so you need to get your own stuff in
order like i totally get that you want
to understand other people this comes
back to dharma as well people like how
do i find my dharma like oh my god
there's so much suffering in the world
it's like get your own [ __ ] in order bro
or girl
you know start with yourself because if
you want to carry other people through
content that's something i know you all
understand y'all play video games
if you want to carry your team in
valorent like you can be a otp like
totally fine
but you got to be really really good at
that trick
right you can be a one-trick pony and
carry other people with it whatever
so if you want to help other people you
want to carry other people you need to
be geared out you need to be decked out
first so your first dharma if you want
to make the world a better place
is fix yourself become strong become
independent become capable
become confident
and then people like oh how do i do that
beware the confusion of the brain
beware the complexity of the addictive
mind here's another tidbit about the
addictive mind it loves complexity
do you guys get that the more complex a
problem is the more the addictive mind
can like hide in that complexity the
more variables there are there are more
things i can try to address or
manipulate to avoid the
conclusion so addictive minds love
complexity because then it's like oh but
what about this but what about this but
what about this but what about this and
the more complex the problem the more
paralysis you're allowed
because i haven't accounted for that yet
i don't need to act yet what about this
what about this what about this haha
another day has gone by another week has
gone by another year has gone by another
decade has gone by because i've been
thinking what about this but what about
this but what about marijuana for
anxiety
beware the complexity of the mind it is
the refuge of the addictive brain
next thing success is dependent on your
raid guild if you want a clear endgame
content you got to find a good raid
guild
that's how life works life is not a
single-player rpg it's an online
persistent universe or offline
persistent it's a persistent universe of
some kind
right and this is where like it's a sad
truth but unfortunately it's true so
think about the company that you keep
between the ages of 23 and 27
i had two groups in my life i had monks
and i had gamers the time that i spent
with monks i did awesome the time that i
spent with gamers i did nothing
between the ages of
32 and 36
i was training at harvard medical school
that's one hell of a raid guild let me
tell you what chat
it is like top-notch
raid stuff they know how to clear stuff
and so what you are depends on the raid
guild that you're a part of it's
unfortunate but it's true
so what we've tried to do is create a
raid guild
that has all spans right we don't we try
not to discriminate based on how
successful you are or how much money you
make or whatever
so the truth of the matter is that what
what bosses you down depend on your raid
guild
okay so that's rule number nine so rule
number ten
any build is viable
don't compare
so this is where a lot of people this
kind of goes back to the people who are
offering you a walk through so in the
game of life any build is viable you can
be an author you can be a doctor you can
be
someone who consumes internet
consumes things on the internet right so
like you can just be someone who just
watches youtube videos and then compiles
the best youtube videos into a 10 minute
video every single day and that can be a
job
any build is viable on the internet and
the more that you get caught up
in what other people are doing
the more
you're gonna like get confused about
what your build is so if you try to
mimic a half dozen builds from a half
dozen people
then you're gonna end up failing
but anything is viable so a good example
of this is if you guys play moba have
you guys y'all ever done this thing
where it's like you're playing a game of
5v5 right so let's do the law whatever
and you get crushed
by a hero on the enemy team you're like
that hero's so op
you pick that hero in the next game
you're like i'm a dump on these shitties
what happens
you get owned
and there's a different hero that's op
and then you're like oh that hero's so
[ __ ] op i'm gonna pick that one i'm
gonna crush these noobs
you play that one and you get owned
it's like stop looking at what other
people are playing and start to play
your own [ __ ] game
any build is viable just do what you do
well
rule number 11 exploit the meta
so just like video games life has a meta
we are in a different meta now than we
were 50 years ago
there are different problems and
different advantages so for example we
are now in the adhd meta
what does that mean it means that 20
years ago 30 years ago adhd was a
disadvantage
and it probably is still on average a
disadvantage today
but we literally have a group of
professions
for which adhd seems to be a competitive
advantage
so the meta changes over time you just
need to realize what your strengths are
what builds are viable and play the
[ __ ] meta because we're trending
towards shorter attention spans so those
of you with shorter attention spans are
doing way better
for 10 years i've tried to write a book
i couldn't my mind is way too vata my
mind is way too adhd i show up on twitch
look what happens
play the meta
what's going on in the matter right now
the biggest change in the meta they're
too cute two or three huge changes the
first is that the barrier to publication
is like shrinking to a fraction of what
it was
what does that mean
that means that in like 50 years ago if
i wanted to write a book
there's a big gap between the author and
the reader
huge gap
i have to write it a publisher has to
accept it a publisher has to think that
enough people want will want to read
this book
it has to be marketed properly now with
this thing called the internet i can
write a book in the 10 people that will
read it so it used to happen in
publishing is that you couldn't publish
a book unless a hundred thousand people
were going to buy it
and then they'd give the author 10
right so like
100 000 people buy it you get 10 percent
let's assume each each book is a dollar
and then so you make 10 000 offer off of
100 000 sales now with the barrier of
publication lower maybe only 10 000
people will read your book
but if you can find that audience and
you can write it you get a dollar per
it's a tenth of the cost of
you know
the
the other book or you still charge 10
bucks you can end up with 100k instead
of 10k
i don't know if y'all i lost you all in
the math
the point is that the barrier to
publication is lower you have solo
people making games like undertale and
axiom verge and stuff like that
right so you can make video games in a
way that you didn't used to you can make
more niche games you can have more niche
twitch streams
being a dm apparently is a
profession now
right so like
exploit the meta recognize that the meta
is changing the other big thing that's
changing about the meta is entertainment
is now the most important field to
invest in
i think if my my kids want job security
they need to be entertainers of some
kind
we're automating everything else
so like what happens as the amount of
automation increases in the world and we
don't need humans anymore
as we get more self-checkout lines as we
get doc in a box which is like a machine
at cbs that will soon be prescribing you
blood pressure medicine
as we get drone delivery by amazon
as we get ai generated this and ai
generated that and automated stuff
and as more human beings are sitting
around and don't need to work why do you
think the anti-work movement is so big
it's because we're quickly reaching the
point where human beings don't need to
work
it used to be that you had to be a
contributing member of society for
society function it's actually changing
you don't need to work we're moving in
the direction of universal basic income
so now we're going to have a bunch of
people who are sitting around with like
nothing meaningful to do that they
really don't need to be doing
and so old industries are trying to hold
on to old standards that are archaic and
then people are unhappy because they
don't actually need to be there
so what are you gonna have a bunch of
people
with a bunch of time what are they gonna
do with their time
they need to be entertained why do you
think there's such an explosion i do not
think it is a coincidence that
automation in the explosion of
entertainment goes hand in hand
30 years ago how many tv shows were
available to watch
today how many tv shows are available to
watch
orders of magnitude higher
the amount of entertainment that's being
produced is
mind-blowing
so exploit the meta
because the meta is going to change
right with you those of y'all that are
gme crypto whatever
that ain't going to stick around for a
long time you got to get in on the
bitcoin billionaire train before it
before it pops like the bubble it is
right you got to get on this
because the meta is going to change your
op strat is going to get patched out and
you're going to be left with nothing
this meta is trash it creates such a bad
society it creates a society whether you
play the society well or not determines
whether it's trash or not
right
and rule number 12
the final boss is you
so case in point everyone's talking
about
problems
in the world we're making them external
so i know it sounds kind of weird
when you play dark souls and you're
fighting gwyn lord of cinder
who determines whether you live or die
when i'm fighting against bowser and
mario who determines whether i win or
lose when i'm fighting against sephiroth
in ff7 who determines whether you win or
lose
so we think that the raid boss is an
external thing
but it's not it's an internal thing the
rate like the boss is just the [ __ ]
boss it's not a raid boss it's not the
final boss it's just another boss
it's just another mob what's the
difference
between gwyn and a skeleton nothing both
of them can kill you
the difference is whether you're good or
not
so this is something y'all really have
to understand if you ignore all the
other rules take this one home
and that's the raid boss is you
you're the problem you're what's holding
you back
so time to get good
chat get good is absolutely right
and for a meditation on
for today
this is what we're going to leave you
with
get good
think about it
walk
meditate
what does it mean to get good
what are the things that are holding you
back in life why the [ __ ] are you
smoking pot and watching motivation
videos all day
like what is really holding you back oh
i don't want to
i don't like it
it's boring
i'm not motivated
what is the actionable thing in all of
those statements
i i i
it's not about the skeleton it's not
about gwyn it's not about bowser it's
not about sephiroth
all y'all have the same problem i i i i
i don't want to it's hard
for me
other people have it so much easier than
me
me me me me me
so you're the final raid boss just think
about it everything that's holding you
back in life has nothing to do with
anything else
sure is the world [ __ ] sometimes like
absolutely don't get me wrong
that can depend on your karma and your
spawn and your rng and things like that
we're not saying that gwen doesn't exist
out there right it's not all skeletons
and goombas
there are bowsers out there there are
gwyns out there there are sephiroths out
there
but at the end of the day
how that person affects you and whether
you wipe to that person or don't wipe to
that person depends on you
so get good chat
you